Environmental education in the interests of sustainable development in the city of Moscow is implemented in the following forms: additional general development programs of natural science orientation, including the use of distance learning (the project "Eco-school online", "Ecolectory", etc.); extracurricular activities; mass environmental events, promotions, contests, festivals for students; environmental expeditions, profile shifts during the vacation period. 
The list of city events of the Department of Education and Science of the City of Moscow annually includes competitive events on environmental education (within the framework of the Moscow City Ecological Festival "Nature of Russia"). The main activities within which the problems of sustainable development are revealed are: 
- Olympiad "Nature of Russia" (held in the format of an individual championship on knowledge of natural and biological diversity, environmental problems and peculiarities of regions, environmental protection);  
- Moscow Ecological Forum of Students (held in the format of competitive readings on the conducted research and completed socially significant projects in the field of biological diversity and environmental issues of the country); 
- City quest in natural sciences (held in the format of a team championship of students of educational organizations, which is a movement along the route and the performance of various tasks on the topic "interaction of nature and society in Moscow and Russia");  
"Green Olympiad" of young ecologists and naturalists (held in the format of a team championship in a natural area for practical knowledge of the biological diversity of the Moscow region, methods of field work of biologists and ecologists). 
The Olympiad events are held within the framework of interdepartmental cooperation with the institutions of the Department of Nature Management and Environmental Protection of the City of Moscow. At least 25 thousand students take part in the events of the Olympiad. 
More than 1,600 schoolchildren took part in educational excursion programs in the State Educational Educational Institution of the ICT Center on the basis of the Museum of Nature, the Museum of Natural History, the greenhouse and the mini zoo.  
To implement the goal "Partnership for Sustainable Development" (Goal No. 17), educational organizations cooperate with specially protected natural areas of the city to conduct field ecological excursions and workshops. At least 700 people become their participants annually. 
The project "Green Schools of Moscow" is actively developing in the education system, aimed at creating an environmentally oriented educational environment and developing the ecological culture of schoolchildren. Within five years, about 300 educational organizations have been included in the project. 
Since 2017, the project "Eco saturdays" (hereinafter referred to as the project) has been implemented as part of the Moscow Schoolboy Saturdays. The project provides ample opportunities for schoolchildren and students of the city to get acquainted with the basic environmental principles, approaches and strategies of modernity.